well there have been Pro Palestinian
solidarity protests right across the
world rallies right now are being held
in London uh let's cross to there and
speak to Rory chalins who's at those
protests and and Rory judge by what I
can see there lots of Palestinian Flags
behind you a lot of people
too absolutely yeah I know it's been a
river of people passing by me for many
many minutes now uh a huge huge
Gathering uh they were expecting perhaps
10 to 20,000 people in central London
for this demonstration well I'm no
expert judge of crowds but I would say
that perhaps they've got that many uh
there certainly uh many many thousands
at least I'll step by and you can see
the sort of the flavor of things at the
moment uh it's been organized by uh
various Palestinian solidarity groups
leftwing
organizations there are Jewish
organizations here as well I've been
speaking to to some of those uh what are
they after well you you can see by some
of the the signs here that they want an
end to the bombing they want an end to
what they call uh Israeli aparti they
want a free Palestine they want Justice
uh and they're showing their solidarity
as you said Nick there are many other
similar protests taking place uh across
the UK and also across Europe and other
parts of the world as well many many
thousands of people coming out to show
their support for the Palestinian course
today Roy the past week's events have
raised all manner of tensions right
across the world it would seem uh
especially in the UK
okay yes yeah and there are I think
fears of tensions in the UK as well the
the police are out in force today to try
and make sure that there's no unrest of
any type really so braan the UK Home
Secretary uh I think in a bid to try and
reassure the Jewish population in the UK
uh that there shouldn't be any support
for Hamas visible at least uh in or
demonstrations like this has asked the
police to try and make a call on whether
things like even the waving of the
Palestinian flag might constitute a
racially aggravated offense well the
police seem to have made that call I
think they've said as much and you can
see behind me there are numerous
Palestinian Flags the police aren't
making any arrests for that sort of
thing at the moment uh Rory we're just
talking to the former International
Secretary of State for International
Development uh CLA Shaw and she was just
talking about the UK government other
governments around the world just
following the US lead being very
strident in supporting the Israelis
without giving any context to the
situation as if the whole events just
started last Saturday that is the
picture that you could describe as far
as UK government is
concerned well the UK government is a
sta Ally of Israel has been for for many
many years and that is not changing um
but of course it is trying trying to uh
you know sort of take take as balanced a
view as it sees fit within its own
position on geopolitics and with it
within its own position towards the
population of this country clearly there
are large uh Muslim parts of the UK
population clearly there are Jewish
parts of of the UK population as well
but I think for many people here they
think that the British government is
well and truly on the wrong side that
they are giving far too much support for
Israel uh they should be much much more
critical of Israeli uh Israeli policy in
Gaza in the West Bank are layers bro UK
are layers thank you very much UK are
layers as you can see that's I think
expressing my that's expressing my point
there that many people who the British
government is taking the wrong side uh
in the struggle of the Palestinians and
the Israeli States all right Rory thanks
to that emotions uh very high about this
whole thanks very much